---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/talent_practice.png
navigation: True
title: Welcome to L5
date: 2017-07-27 10:00:00
tags: [Announcements]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post announcements world-of-l5'
author: noah
---

# Hello, World!
 
**We’re making a board game called L5.**
 
**L5 is a cooperative role-playing strategy game set in the future, when we live in space.**
 
You and your friends will become a team of specialists working together to confront a dangerous lie hidden at the center of the futuristic utopia of this Orbital Society – the terrible and comforting idea that the Earth we’ve left behind is beyond saving.
 
When a rare Reference to what’s really happening down on Earth appears in a station’s public media feed, your team is sent to investigate. Your task is to illuminate these references to Earth with data you’ve collected aboard the station -- but the news cycle is relentless and any reference to Earth is quickly buried by new media that must be dealt with before it overflows and causes crises throughout the station.
 
Your team will need to use every resource available – each character’s unique abilities, powerful tech, the actions and items you acquire by clearing the Stream of its distractions, and the rooms of the station itself - to reveal the truth about Earth before time runs out and the references are lost forever in the noise. And, finally, the information you collect about Earth – these hints and clues and questions – may even lead you past the edges of the Orbital Society… to the lonely places where Legends live.
 
---
 
Or… at least that’s how we’re describing it right now – and this description has been through many wild rewrites over the past year of development, so don’t hold us to any of it quite yet. Our hope is to make a game that’s quick, challenging, and fun for folks who’ve always been into the *idea* of a full-blown role-playing tabletop game but who, like us, can’t quite get it together to read a whole book of rules or spend all that time preparing a story to play. A game for a group of friends to play together without asking anyone to isolate themselves in a DM-like role,and where the game itself is fun regardless of how much you choose to identify with the characters, role-playing, or wider lore. Fast, varied gameplay that involves dice rolling, card collecting, and a modular space station game board. L5 aspires to be a quick 25- to 45-minute self-generating puzzle-mazes with an eye toward a future where characters level up and the narrative deepens in a series of connected quests – episodic adventures in an ongoing saga that leads you deeper into the mysteries that lurk at the roots of this whimsical far-future civilization.
 
---

We still have a lot of questions. I’m sure you do too.
 
And we want this site to be the place to ask them. This is a place where we’ll post **updates about the world we’re building**, track **highlights from our development process**, and publish and update a *downloadable, DIY version of the game* as we make it so you can play along at home and tell us what’s cool and what’s broken.
 
We’re planning to keep revising these posts as the game evolves – editing text, replacing images, and rewriting rules with abandon. It’s intended more as a window into our vision of L5 right now than as a museum of our process, so you may encounter contradictions or ambiguities as we continue to build the game, it’s lore, and this site all at once, all together. But, at it’s heart, that’s the game itself – an endless attempt to keep everything in balance and spinning forward toward a better idea of the what the future could be.
 
<3
Bill & Noah
