---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/crown-download.jpg
navigation: True
title: Rules
date: 2017-07-25 10:00:00
tags: [Play L5]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: noah
---

# L5
*Version 0.6.3*

# In the Box

* 2 character IDs & matching character tokens
* 4 tech 'placemats' (2/character)  
              -
* 15 new media cards: (red-blue-violet)
* 8 reference cards: (3 global powers, 2 technologies, 2 ecosystems, 1 internet)
* 1 media reference card  
              -
* 1 blue arcade & keep
* 1 red arcade
* 1 violet arcade  
              -
* 30 data (dice) (10 red, 10 blue, 10 violet)

# Setting Up

 
Shuffle the deck of New Media Cards,
or arrange them in any order.
 
Choose 3 Reference Cards:  
1 Global Power, 1 Technology, and 1 Ecosystem
 
> ***The Internet*** is wild and can stand in for any Reference type.
 
And lay them on the table near the deck of New Media Cards.
 
***for a faster game***, choose or draw more Reference Cards  
and place or shuffle them into the New Media deck.
 
Freely arrange the arcades on the table.
 
Players select their characters by arranging the ID Card and Tech in front of them and placing the Character Token on the station’s Keep.
 
***if it’s your first time playing a character,***  
*you must choose a Lucky Number for your character*  
*by filling in any number of dots in the upper left corner*  
*of your character’s ID.*  
 
Each character receives a Data (die) matching the color of the culture in the upper left of their ID.
 
Each player rolls their Data  
and places it on any yellow or orange square  
anywhere on their Tech.
 
They can either keep the number they rolled, 
or turn it to their lucky number.  
 
**In L5, the sixth side of the data shows a Star,**  
and Stars are wild and can be used as any number.
 
If you want, you can put a gold star sticker on your data  
the first time it rolls a Star.
 
Finally,
 
Deal out one New Media card on top of each Reference,  
such that the text on the card is still visible.
 
If a Reference card is drawn, it begins its own stack,  
and must also be buried by one New Media card this turn.  
The goal of L5 is to Clear the New Media cards, revealing the References, which you can then Illuminate with a Data.  
and prevent more cards from burying it again.
 
If you can Illuminate one of each Reference Type  
&mdash; Global Power, Technology, and Ecosystem &mdash;   
with any kind of data  
before the deck or the data run out,
 
then you win the game. 
 
# Taking Turns
 
Characters (and Players) take turns freely,  
until no one has any moves left.
 
At the end of each turn, new New Media cards are drawn from the deck and placed on top of every stack.
 
If any stack has five New Media cards in it, this will cause a Crisis.  
But more on that later.
 
At the start of each turn, every Character receives a data  
matching the culture (color) of the Arcade their Character Token is in.
 
***On the first turn,*** characters receive a data  
matching the station’s Keep,  
and the Characters each receive a free Move  
from the Keep to any room on the Station.  
 
Then, each Character can use their **ID**, their **Tech**, and play any **Actions** they might have, in any order, once per turn. 
 
# Using Your ID

Your ID is the card with your Character’s Face,  
and information about their Career and Culture,  
and Lucky Number.
 
**The Five Careers** are *Astronaut, Diva,  
Producer, Programmer, Cleric*  
but only **Astronaut** and **Producer**   
are available in 0.6.3.
 
**The Five Cultures** are *Gaia, IRiS, RedCorp, bluecorp, and Tārā,*  
but only *RedCorp, bluecorp,** and **Tārā**  
are available in 0.6.3.
 
It also includes your **Moves,**  
which are determined by your Character’s Career.
 
You may, in any order at any time,  
use your A-MOVE (including your JUMP as one move)  
**and** B-MOVE
 
**or** use the Z-MOVE instead of either.
 
*A-MOVES move the Character Token  
to new Rooms in the arcades.*

*B-MOVES allow characters in the same room  
to trade cards and data.*
 
*Z-MOVES rearrange data on a Character’s own Tech.*
 
*JUMPS move the Character Token between arcades.*
 
In the lower right of the ID, there is also an **Ability,**  
specific to your Character’s Culture  
that you to use at any time  
to **Illuminate a Reference**  
so long as:  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; a Reference card has no New Media cards burying it  
**and** you have a data on the orange diamond on your Tech,  
**and** you are either in the Keep or the orange room on your ID.
 
# Using Your Tech

Your Characters tech is specific to their Career. Tech is represented in the game by a card with some number of data displays &mdash;   
yellow squares and orange diamonds  
where data (dice) can be placed.
 
The Primary Tech is marked with an orange diamond and grants special powers specific to the personality and playstyle of the career.
 
The Secondary Tech grants another way to move around the station,  
and, when powered up with n-of-a-kind data, can boost the power of your Primary Tech. 
 
Each turn,  
a Character can use either their Primary ortheir Secondary Tech.
 
# Clearing New Media

If you have a data (die) anywhere on your Tech  
matching the culture (color) and number of a New Media Card  
at the top of any stack,
 
and your Character Token is the Room indicated  
on the New Media Card
 
then, at any time, you can discard that data  
and take the New Media Card off the stack  
and place it in front of your ID.
 
If you also have data matching New Media cards buried beneath that the card you just collected,  
you may also discard those data as well  
and collect those cards, so long as you can collect them in order  
and without skipping any cards in the stack.
 
# Illuminating References

When Reference cards are cleared of all New Media,  
players may Illuminate them  
before the next wave of cards buries them again.  
Reference cards can be illuminated by Using your ID  
or playing an orange Action. 

# Playing Actions

When you collect a New Media card  
and place it in front of a character’s ID,   
you can now play it at any time  
to use the action written on the top. 
 
Cards are one-time-use, and,  
once played, get discarded to the a Stream &mdash;    
a line of cards (like the river in poker)   
overlapping to just show the sequence of actions played.   
 
Whenever a stack of New Media cards reaches five cards,  
and it’s time to deal another card on top of it,  
that card instead is placed upside-down in the Stream,  
 
and a Crisis is placed on the station.

# Resolving Crises
 
A Crisis occurs when a New Media card is dealt directly into the stream because a stack has reached is maximum of five cards.  
The Crisis is a data (die) matching the culture (color)   
and number of the New Media Card   
placed on an Arcade, disabling the use of a room   
as anything but a blank space to pass through.  
 
The room is determined by the room displayed on the most-recently-played Action. If there are multiple rooms of that kind on the station, either match the culture of the New Media card,   
… or just pick one.
 
A crisis can be resolved by moving into that room  
and discarding a data matching the crisis exactly.  
 
# Winning
 
Your team wins by illuminating three References &mdash;    
one of each type. The Internet is wild and counts as any type.  
 
# Losing
 
Your team loses when it’s time to draw a New Media card  
and there are none left to draw.
 
Or when it’s time to receive a data  
and they’ve all been displayed or discarded.
 
 


