---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/2018-05-25-setup.jpg
navigation: True
title: Update 0.6.5
date: 2018-05-25 00:30:00
tags: [Meta]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: bill
---

We started figuring out this new version pretty much as soon as we hit publish on 0.6.5. 
There's nothing like putting something out in the world to make you see all the ways it could be better.

This update is focused on making everything clearer and simpler than 0.6.3. 
We also knew we wanted to add a new character and bring the total number of possible players up to three. 

The new character is a RedCorp Cleric. 
With a long-term focus, Clerics help their team find the data they need to clear cards and illuminate.
The Cleric has a data-heavy play style and limited mobility centered around the keep.

With the Cleric, we also added a new culture, Gaia, and a new arcade with that culture.
The Gaia arcade has an Observatory and a Server. We've been calling it _The Library_.

You can find everything you need to **play the newest version** of L5 right [here](/play). 

### Here's what changed: 

* added the RedCorp Cleric (incl. ID, tech, and accessory
* added a Gaia arcade
* added 10 Gaia Orbit Cards
* added 10 Gaia data 
* changed the powers on the Orbit Cards
* changed how Orbit Cards are played
* reduced the number of Earth Cards to four
* Earth Cards now need 3 data to be fully illuminated 
* simplified the turn structure to 3 actions

so basically everything. 

But mostly it's the same game where everything's a little simpler. We'll keep working on that too.

In the next update I think there'll be some bigger, more exciting changes to mechanics.

### So, what's next?

In the next update, you can expect major changes to the way cards are played.
There's a lot we like about how cards work so far, but we think they need to feel more like valued assets to the players who have them, and less like collateral goods that are sometimes useful by accident.

We also have two new characters and one more culture to introduce before we're done, so they're probably going to have a role to play in achieving that goal. 
